git2rally
--------

This is the README file for the Rally Connector for Git.

The source distribution comprises code that skims the Git system for 
recent commits and extracts information from the commit messages and posts 
Changeset/Change information to a Rally SCMRepository according to specifications 
in a configuration file.

This software is written in Ruby and has been tested using 
Ruby 1.9.2-p290, but should also work with Ruby 1.9.3-p194. 
If this software is for use on a Linux/Unix/MacOSX system then it must
be installed subsequent to installing the httpclient and rally_api gems. 
(See details further down in this file).  

If this software is for use on a Windows platform and you use the 
installer package, you will not need to have Ruby installed on your
platform, it is in included in the installer package.

Tactical Preparation
--------------------

   o - Verify that your target WorkspaceConfiguration has BuildandChangsetEnabled set
      
       Your Rally Workspace administrator needs to enable this for your target Workspace.
       If it is not enabled, the connector will work, but you won't be able to see 
       any of the Changeset/Change information that is associated with your Rally
       work items (Story, Defect, Task, etc).

   o - Installer vs. operator filesystem permissions

        As this connector is intended to run on an ongoing basis initiated by
        either cron or Windows Task Scheduler (WTS), it is important to consider the 
        identity of the user who installs the connector versus the identity of 
        the user when run via cron/WTS with regard to the permissioning / ACL
        of the directories and files in the connector installation.
        The runner of the connector must be able to read all files and must be
        able to write in the configs and logs subdirectories.

   o - Connector on Git platform vs use of ssh

        The primary use case is for this connector to be run on the platform that
        the Git software and repository reside on.
        While it is possible to run this connector on a platform that is not the
        Git platform, that use case assumes the use of ssh and the proper
        setup of public / private key information.  Setting up ssh and key files is
        beyond the scope of this document; consult the interwebs for any one of many
        fine documents regarding ssh and PKI.
        If you intend to run the connector on a Windows platform, and the Git
        repository will be located on a different platform, you'll need to make sure
        that the 'ssh.exe' command is installed on your Windows platform running
        the connector and it's location in the filesystem is an element in your 
        %PATH%.

    o - Consider how much Git history you want to have reflected in Rally 

        It is possible to operate the connector to "catch-up" with the complete
        history of commits in Git.  You should assemble a pro/con list of
        considerations, reasons and benefits to help you arrive at a strategy that
        works for your organization with respect to whether or not you need a 
        complete commit history reflected in Rally or just reflected from some  
        particular point in time.


Distribution contents
---------------------
   README
   LICENSE
   git2rally.rb   (*nix only)
   git2rally.exe  (Windows only)
   git2rally.bat  (Windows only)
   vcseif-<version>.gem  (*nix only)

   configs
       sample.yml
       user_map.txt

   logs   (a directory/folder to hold high-level log and log per config)

   lib
       git_connection.rb

   plugin
       passthru.rb
       domainaug.rb
       ralkup.rb
       filemap.rb
       emailaddr.rb
       chainlkup.rb
       viscount.rb

   extension
       statex.rb     (exemplar of how to extract artifact and action information)

   User-Mapping-Strategies

   WinTail.exe (Windows only)


Prerequisites
-------------
    * this section relevant for *nix installation only

    httpclient  version 2.3.0.1          (available at http://www.rubygems.org/gems/httpclient)
    rally_api   version 0.9.22 or better  (available at http://www.rubygems.org/gems/rally_api)

    Install the httpclient and rally_api gem before installing the connector, using the gem install command.
    Additional information about Ruby gems and their installation can be obtained from
    http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/libraries and other websites related to the Ruby language and ecosystem.
    

Installation
------------
    
    *nix platform
    -------------
    Unpack the distribution package into a directory you want to have
    as the operational home for this software.

    Tip: The distribution unpacks into a git2rally-*-<version>-<build_ident> directory.  
         Create a symlink with a shorter name to point to that either under the same 
         directory root or from somewhere else (like /usr/local or /opt/local).
         For example: 
           $ ln -s /opt/sw/git2rally-gemconn-0.8.9-cib48 /opt/local/gitr

    Install the vcseif gem:
     # using the above example of having created a symlink to the installation root...
     $ cd /opt/local/gitr   
     $ gem install vcseif-<version>.gem --no-ri --no-rdoc

     Windows platform
     ----------------
     If you downloaded the zip file package (GitConnectorforRally-<version>.zip), 
     unzip it to a staging folder.  This unzips into a single file,
     GitConnectorforRally-<version>.exe which is the installer executable.

     Run the installer executable (GitConnectorforRally-<version>.exe).
     You'll need to respond to dialogs asking you to accept the license terms
     and to select the location where you want to have the connector installed.
     Choose a location that makes sense for your environment and conventions.

     The installation on Windows also includes a file named WinTail.exe.  This is
     a third-party tool (with a free for general use license) that can be used 
     to follow ("tail") a log file as the the connector executes.  You can certainly
     use any other tool to achieve that same result, we package WinTail.exe as a
     convenience for you to use as you see fit.


Configuration
-------------

    Copy the sample.yml file in configs to a new name, for example, repo_one.yaml. 
    Edit the copied file and adjust some of the sample values for servers, credentials
    workspaces, repository names and paths to values appropriate for your environment.
    The file is in YAML format.  The YAML format uses indentation to represent structure
    and colon character (:) and dash character (-) to denote name/value separation 
    and list elements.  So, you'll need to be aware of preserving those syntactical 
    elements in your edited file.

    Within the Rally section of your YAML configuration file, there is an entry where
    you can name the SCMRepository in the Rally system to which Changeset/Change items
    will be associated.   This SCMRepository is a named container which need not exist
    before running the connector; if it doesn't exist, the connector will create
    the SCMRepository in the Rally user's target workspace.  

    Assess how user names are alike or differ in your Git system and in your 
    Rally subscription.  If the user names are universally identical in both systems,
    then you can either comment out all Author subitems underneath the Transforms section
    or you can set the value for the Author field in the Transforms section to 'Passthru'.
    If on the other hand there is a deterministic mapping that can transform a Git
    user value to the corresponding correct Rally username value, you'll need to 
    adjust the transformation value for Author to the appropriate classname.
    Consult the User-Mapping-Strategies text document to determine which technique
    fits your particular situation.

    There is an optional Lookback configuration item that can appear on either or both of
    the Rally and Git sections of the configuration file.  The value for this parameter
    is expressed in terms of minutes (default or with the use of the 'm' character) or 
    hours using a 'h' character or days by using a 'd' character.
    You can also fully spell the recogized units as "minutes", "hours" or "days".
    Examples:
        Lookback: 90
        Lookback: 120 m
        Lookback: 8 h
        Lookback: 10 days

    If you do not explicitly provide a Lookback value, the connector uses a defalt value of 1 hour.
    Rally recommends that if you specify a value for Lookback in either section that you also specify
    a Lookback in the counterpart section with the same value.  If the Lookback values 
    are not identical, there is the possibility under some circumstances that a changeset from 
    Git would not be
    reflected in Rally due to the nature of distributed version control systems 
    recording the original commit time and not the time the commits are pushed to a master repository 
    and window of time consideration being too short for the connector to pick up such commits.


Example Configuration
---------------------

---

VCSConnector:

Rally:
    Server         : us1.rallydev.com
    Protocol       : https
    Username       : jojo@muchly.com
    Password       : 22333four
    Workspace      : VanillaBean
    SCMRepository  : Balloon
    #Proxy         : some_proxy.yoursite.com:8090  # or an IP address:port
    #ProxyUser     : outbound
    #ProxyPassword : bvc-357%GNQ
    Lookback : 90  # in minutes by default, use m/h/d suffix for minutes/hours/days
    UpdateArtifactState : False
    StateExtractorClass : BasicActionsAndArtifactsExtractor(message)
    Debug : False

Git:
    RepositoryBase: /var/www/foo/bar
    Uri      : http://yourserver.com:8090/gitifc
    Lookback : 90 m
    MaxItems : 100 
    Debug    : False

Services:
    Preview  : False
    LogLevel : Debug

Transform:
    Author: Passthru

...

Note that the Proxy* items are commented out by using a '#' in front of the item.  
Within a YAML file, a line starting with a '#' character is ignored and any text
after a ' #' sequence is ignored (including the ' #' sequence).


Operation
---------

    Within the 'Services' section of your config file ("repo_one.yaml" for example), is
    an entry for 'Preview' that is set to 'False'.  You may want to set this value to 'True'
    in the initial setup phase to see that the connector can successfully connect to Rally
    with the credentials and information you've provided, as well as proving out the
    use of the 'git' command.  Your PATH environment variable must contain a filesystem 
    path where the 'git' command can be found.  See Linux / Unix / MacOSX  / Windows
    documentation on how to set environment variables for use within a *nix cron job
    (or Windows Task Scheduler entry).
    Once you've determined that a connector run in Preview mode operates as expected,
    you can set the Preview value in your config to a False value.

    On an ongoing basis, you can use cron / Windows Task Scheduler 
    (or any other job/task scheduling software) to run the connector periodically.
    Initially, Rally recommends the connector to be run every 15 minutes during normal
    business hours and less frequently during non-business hours.

    You can have numerous config files in the configs subdir and specify them all for 
    invocation either by name or by globbing (wild-card syntax).

    Example:
        ruby git2rally.rb apricot banana cherry dogwood
       
        or on Windows:

        git2rally.exe apricot banana cherry dogwoood

    where the files apricot.yml, banana.yml, cherry.yml and dogwood.yml exist in the
    configs subdirectory.  The connector only looks for config files in the configs 
    subdirectory under the installation base directory..

    Whenever the connector is run, an entry is made in the logs/git2rally.log file to note
    the invocation.  For each config named at invocation, there will be an entry in that file
    noting the return code from running that config.  When the connector run has finished with
    all configs, an entry is written to note the completion of the connector run.

    Additionally, there will be a file written in the logs subdirectory for each config named
    that will have much more detail about the activity that occurs during the run.
    You can adjust the verbosity written to these log files by modifying the LogLevel value
    in the config file.  Normally, the LogLevel would be set to 'Info'.  Should you encounter 
    situations where the connector does not complete normally, you can adjust the LogLevel to 
    'Debug' and run the connector to begin the troubleshooting process.  These log files 
    can be sent to Rally Support to expedite the investigation of a case.

    The connector will write a file in the base installation directory corresponding to the
    config name with the date of the last commit processed.  The file is named 
    <i>config</i>_time.file and simply has a time entry in the form 'YYYY-mm-dd HH:MM:SS Z'
    (for Zulu time).
    When first run, there won't be a <i>time file</i> for the config and the connector defaults
    to looking for commits that occurred after 2010-01-01 00:00:00 Z.  You can override that
    behavior by creating and editing a <i>time file</i> for the config you are about to process.
    By providing an entry in the format mentioned above, you can control that point from which 
    commits are processed.
    

Extensions
----------

    Within the 'extension' sub-folder of the installation, there is an exemplar Ruby class
    in the file named 'statex.rb'.  The class definition contained in that file is named
    'BasicActionsAndArtifactsExtractor'.  This example class demonstrates the basic technique
    of examining a commit message and extracting Rally artifact identifiers and state transition
    target values.  Using this class when the config file item 'UpdateArtifactState' value is set
    to True results in the transition of the State (or ScheduleState in the case of UserStory) of
    the identified artifact to the state value mentioned in the commit message.  

    For example, if there is a Rally Defect (identified as DE1987) mentioned in the commit message
    with a new valid state value either immediately preceding or following the artifact identifier,
    then the connector will change the State of the identified artifact in Rally to that state.

    Example:  git commit my_file.java -m "Fixed DE1987 by changing preamble paragraph 3"

    If Rally Defect DE1987 had been in the 'Open' state prior to the commit and run of the connector,
    then subsequent to the operation of the connector processing this particular changeset, the
    state of Rally Defect DE1987 would appear as 'Fixed'.
  
    The extension folder allows you to provide your own message processing to extract Rally artifact
    identifiers and state changes if the example provided does not fit your conventions. 
    Your extension must be a class written in Ruby and must provide an instance method called 'service'
    which takes the commit message as an argument and must return a Ruby Hash instance with entries
    keyed by a State name (ie., 'Fixed', 'Completed', etc.) or nil with a Ruby Array as the associated
    value populated by Rally artifact identifiers (FormattedID). 

Updates
-------
     
     Rally has a website on which new versions of the Git to Rally Connector are made 
     available:
        https://people.rallydev.com/connector/HG-7532-4884-1341-9704       

     **** If you re-install or update the connector, make sure to store off your config
          files so that you don't have to redo your configuration work.

Changes
-------

    1.1.0  Defect fixes.  First GA for TFS to Rally VCS spoke.
    October 2013

    1.0.2  Config file section header lines can now have comments
    May 2013

    1.0.1  Adjusted time file entry to account for DST correctly
    April 2013

    1.0.0  Pre-GA
    March 2013

Feedback
--------
 
   Contact us with questions / issues / suggestions at support@rallydev.com
